# monotone-OS-logos
Reworked Open source logo's for use in sinlge color screenprinting

## Why?
For the 2025 edition of the FOSS4Gnl meeting in my hometown Wageningen we got the idea that visitors could bring their own t-shirt/bag/piece of cloth/underwear and the like and get the logo of their favorite Open source tool printed on it in any available color. That way you could promote your favorite at the conference (and after). It was a real fun day, and we printed a lot on aforementioned material on a pay what you want basis.

## The reason for this repo
While I first looked at the programme of Foss4G.nl (now found at https://foss4g.nl, will change to https://2025.fossfg.nl) and seeking the logo's of the mentioned tools or programs most of them were not usable for silkscreening, certainly not in one color. So while I was searching for those, I collected the best usable versions of logo's for rework as a monotone vector image. These logo's are all GIS based or at least related (like python, which is off course also used outside of the GIS domain). I then went to work on filtering, tracing and redrawing of these logo's, trying to follow their brand guidelines (if there was one to be found), but sidetracking on those guidelines whenever I thought necessary fort the best result in screenprinting (like changing greytones to a halftone raster). My initial idea was to share these creations again with the open source community, and there were a few visitors who suggested the same idea.

I will post the logo's here and will fill the wiki with the design steps and reasons for diverting from possible guidelines. Some of the adjustments were easy, because there were already some regional or other kind of versions of the official logo which were moee suitable for silkscreen use and neede very little work. But some had to almost be completely redrawn. I am no programmer and see this as a way to contribute to the great open source community. I mainly used Adobe Illustrator for this, because I have worked in Illustrator extensively for years, but I am trying to switch over to Inkscape more and more. Furthermore this is not meant as a one action only. I will update and likely add other logo's too (not only GIS related). If there are any requests from the community or even complaints about my versions, post them as Issue here. And off course other designers can join in on the effort. We could also make a library of full print-ready CMYK versions, or other versions with like 2 or 3 colors too. These logo's can be used for silkscreening, lasercutting or whatever where you can only use one color, but due to the vectors blow it up to any size you want.
